# Local Package Deployment

> This document describes TuGraph Local Package Deployment.

## 1.Supported Platforms

TuGraph supports both X86_64 and ARM64 architectures in physical, virtual, and containerized environments.

## 2.Hardware requirements

_You are advised to use NVMe SSDS with large memory configurations for optimal performance。_

| Hardware | Minimum Configuration | Recommended configuration |
| -------- | --------------------- | ------------------------- |
| CPU      | X86_64                | Xeon E5 2670 v4           |
| Memory   | 4GB                   | 256GB                     |
| Disk     | 100GB                 | 1TB NVMe SSD              |
| System   | Linux 2.6             | Ubuntu 18.04, CentOS 7.3  |

## 3.Download Local Package

Please visit the official website for download：[TuGraph DownLoad](https://www.tugraph.org/download)

## 4.Ubuntu

The.deb installation package for TuGraph installed on Ubuntu, which contains the TuGraph executable along with the header files and associated library files needed to write embedded programs and stored procedures.

To install the tugraph_x.y.z.deb 'installation package on the terminal, run the following command:

```shell
$ sudo dpkg -i tugraph-x.y.z.deb
```

This command installs TuGraph in the /usr/local directory by default. Users can also change the installation directory by specifying the `--instdir=<directory>` option.

## 5.CentOS

rpm installation package for TuGraph installed on CentOS, which contains TuGraph executables as well as headers and associated libraries for writing embedded programs and stored procedures.

To install the tugraph_x.y.z.rpm package on the terminal, run the following command:

```shell
$ rpm -ivh tugraph-x.y.z.rpm
```

The user can also specify the installation directory by specifying the `--prefix` option.