# What is TuGraph

> This document mainly introduces the main features and characteristics of TuGraph Community Edition, as well as the differences between TuGraph Enterprise Edition and Community Edition.


## 1.Introduction

Graph database is a non-relational database that stores data by vertices and edges. It can be used to store complex data network models, such as social networks and transaction networks. TuGraph is a graph database developed by Ant Group. This manual introduces the functions and usage of TuGraph.

## 2.TuGraph Community Edition

The Community Edition is a fully functional version of TuGraph, suitable for single-instance deployment. It provides complete basic fuctions of graph database, such as ACID-compatible transactions, programming APIs, and associated tools. It is ideal for learning TuGraph and implementing small projects.

## 3.TuGraph features

TuGraph is a large-scale graph computing system independently developed by Ant Group, providing graph database engine and graph analysis engine. Its main features are large data storage and computation, high throughput, and flexible API, while supporting efficient online transaction processing (OLTP) and online analytical processing (OLAP). LightGraph and GeaGraph are former names of TuGraph.

The main functional features include:

- Labeled property graph model
- Support multiple Graphs
- Full ACID transaction processing
- Built-in 34 graph analysis algorithm
- Graph visualization tool based on Web client
- RESTful API and RPC are supported
- OpenCypher graph query language
- Stored procedure based on C++/Python/Java
- The Traversal API for efficient graph algorithm development

Performance and scalability features include:

- TB large capacity
- High throughput of ten million vertices per second
- High Availability Support (Enterprise Edition)
- High-performance Batch Import
- Online/offline backup

## 4.The data model

### 4.1.Graph model

TuGraph is a strong schema property graph database with multi-graph capability. It supports the construction of directed graphs with up to one trillion vertices.

- Multiple graphs: In TuGraph, each database server can host multiple graph models, each graph model can have its own access control configuration, and the database administrator can create or delete specified graph models.

- Property graph: vertices and edges in TuGraph can have properties associated with them, and each attribute can have a different type.

- Strong schema: Each vertex and edge must have a label, and the number and type of properties are difficult to change after the label created.

- Directed edges: The edges in TuGraph are directed edges. To simulate an undirected edge, the user can create two opposite edges.

### 4.2.The data type

TuGraph Supports a variety of data types that can be used as attributes, the specific supported data types are as follows:

<caption>Table 1. TuGraph supported data types</caption>

| **Type** | **Min**          | **Max**          | **Description**                                         |
| ------------ | ------------------- | ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------ |
| BOOL         | false               | true                | Boolean                                          |
| INT8         | -128                | 127                 | 8-bit int                                        |
| INT16        | -32768              | 32767               | 16-bit int                                       |
| INT32        | - 2^31              | 2^31 - 1            | 32-bit int                                       |
| INT64        | - 2^63              | 2^63 - 1            | 64-bit int                                       |
| DATE         | 0000-00-00          | 9999-12-31          | "YYYY-MM-DD" Date of format                      |
| DATETIME     | 0000-00-00 00:00:00 | 9999-12-31 23:59:59 | "YYYY-MM-DD hh:mm:ss"Format of the date and time |
| FLOAT        |                     |                     | 32-bit float                                     |
| DOUBLE       |                     |                     | 64-bit float                                     |
| STRING       |                     |                     | A string of variable length                      |
| BLOB         |                     |                     | Binary data                                      |

_BLOB data is BASE64 encoded in input and output_

### 4.3.Index

TuGraph supports indexing vertex fields.

Indexes can be unique or non-unique. If a unique index is created for a vertex label, TuGraph will perform a data integrity check to ensure the uniqueness of the index before modifying the vertex of the label.

Each index built on a single field of a label, and multiple fields can be indexed using the same label.

BLOB fields cannot be indexed.

## 5.TuGraph Enterprise Edition

The Enterprise Edition has more comprehensive support for commercial features, including distributed cluster architecture, a one-stop graph platform covering exploration, research and development, service and operation and maintenance throughout the lifecycle, online, near-line, and offline graph computing engines, support for streaming and big data data sources, multi-site and multi-center deployment, making it an ideal choice for commercial solutions.

```txt
    If you need to implement production-level high-availability cluster architecture, operation and maintenance and other enterprise-level services, please contact us to obtain commercial support:
    Email:tugraph@service.alipay.com
    Tel:0571-85022088,extension number 83789993#
```