# Docker Deployment

>This document introduces the creation and download of Docker images for TuGraph Compile and TuGraph Runtime.

## 1.Introduction

- TuGraph Compile Image: Provides a compilation environment and can be used for TuGraph compilation and testing.
- TuGraph Runtime Image: Provides a binary executable environment with TuGraph library and executable files.
- TuGraph Mini Runtime Image: Provides a binary executable environment without Java and Python functions in TuGraph, no C++ plugin compilation and execution, only so upload.

## 2.Existing Docker Images

### 2.1.Image Download

The images are hosted on [DockerHub]( https://hub.docker.com/u/tugraph ) and can be downloaded and used directly.

For the latest version of Docker address, see the TuGraph-Latest-Version section in [Guide](../../1.guide.md).

### 2.2.Naming Convention

#### 2.2.1.TuGraph Compile Image

Provides a compilation environment and can be used for TuGraph compilation.

`tugraph/tugraph-compile-[os name & version]:[tugraph compile version]`

For example: `tugraph/tugraph-compile-centos7:1.2.0`

#### 2.2.2.TuGraph Runtime Image

Provides a binary executable environment with TuGraph library and executable files.

`tugraph/tugraph-runtime-[os name & version]:[tugraph-runtime version]`

For example:`tugraph/tugraph-runtime-centos7:3.4.0`

#### 2.2.3.TuGraph Mini Runtime Image

Provides a binary executable environment without Java and Python functions in TuGraph, no C++ plugin compilation and execution, only so upload.

`tugraph/tugraph-mini-runtime-[os name & version]:[tugraph-runtime version]`

For example: `tugraph/tugraph-mini-runtime-centos7:3.4.0`

### 2.3.Common Docker Operations

Docker is generated from Dockerfile. Note that creating images requires downloading dependencies, so network issues may cause slow creation or creation failure. Do not overwrite images unless the tag is `latest`.

build Compile image
```bash
docker build -f tugraph-compile-centos7-Dockerfile -t tugraph/tugraph-compile-centos7:1.2.0 .
```

build Runtime / Mini Runtime image
```bash
docker build --build-arg FILEPATH="${rpm_path_in_oss}" --build-arg FILENAME="${rpm_name}" -f tugraph-compile-centos7-Dockerfile -t tugraph/tugraph-runtime-centos7:1.2.0 .
```

Modify image name
```bash
docker tag ${image_name}:${image_tag} tugraph/tugraph-runtime-centos7:3.3.0
```

push image
```bash
docker push tugraph/tugraph-compile-centos7:1.2.0 .
```

pull image
```bash
docker pull tugraph/tugraph-compile-centos7:1.2.0
```

save image
```bash
docker save ${image_name}:${image_tag} | gzip > lgraph_latest.tar.gz
```

load image
```bash
docker load --input lgraph_latest.tar.gz
```

Refer to the [docker official documentation](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/cli ) for other Docker operations.

### 2.4. M1 Supports

Running amd64 containers on M1-chip machines may cause unknown errors. TuGraph provides arm64 images for M1 machines. Contains compile and runtime images.

In `tugraph-runtime-centos7:3.6.0` and `tugraph-compile-centos7:1.2.7` and later, `tugraph-runtime-centos7` and `tugraph-compile-centos7` provide images of two architectures: linux/amd64 and linux/arm64/v8. You can obtain the arm64 architecture image through docker pull on the M1 machine.

## 3. Best Practice in Using and Developing Docker Images for TuGraph-DB

Please carefully read the points below and follow them if you are new to contribute to TuGraph.

- To get rid of too much docker layer, please add your dependency to the Docker with the style writing ENV and RUN in a
  single line.
- For the packages/resources you need to build the dependency, use the original ones instead of tweaking them without
  tracking by VCS. And then contact TuGraph team to upload it to OSS to accelerate the building process, as the urls you
  see in the Dockerfiles.
- To make the development more efficient, you would better start from adding dependencies to base TuGraph Compile Images
  and then reproduce the process in the Dockerfile after confirming the enviroment works.
- CI uses the docker images. Please check the dependency problems if your CI fails.