# TuGraph Stored Procedure Guide

> This document describes how to use TuGraph's stored procedures

## 1.Introduction

When users want to express complex logics of queries or updates (such as those currently not supported by Cypher, or those demanding high performance), using TuGraph stored procedures would be a better choice.

Similar to traditional databases, TuGraph's stored procedures run on the server side, and users can reduce the number of calls to the REST interface required by the client by encapsulating the processing logic (that is, multiple operations) into one procedure, and can implement it through parallel Processing methods (such as using the relevant C++ OLAP interface and built-in algorithms based on its implementation) for further acceleration.

## 2.Guide

In TuGraph, users can dynamically load, update and delete stored procedures. TuGraph supports stored procedures written in C language and Python language. The extension of the stored procedure written in C language is generally .so (under Linux/Unix system) or .dll (under Windows system). The extension of a Python stored procedure is .py. The two stored procedures are managed separately, but are used in the same way. Users can manage and call stored procedures through RESTful API or RPC. The following description takes the RESTful API as an example, and the corresponding RPC calling method is detailed in the RPC documentation.

Before version 3.5, all stored procedures (hereinafter referred to as **Legacy Procedure**) can only be managed and invoked through REST API or RPC. Starting from version 3.5, stored procedures implemented in C++ language (hereinafter referred to as **Standard Procedure**) can be used in conjunction with Cypher. This article focuses on the implementation of Standard Procedure and its use in Cypher statements. For the documentation of Legacy Procedure, please refer to: [Legacy Procedure]. The following description takes the REST API as an example, and the corresponding RPC calling method is detailed in the RPC documentation.

> Note: Standard Procedure is currently only fully supported by C++ language. Please follow the Legacy Procedure method to use the stored procedure written in Python language.

[Legacy Procedure]: ./2.procedure-legacy.md

### 2.1.Writing stored procedures

Users can write C++ stored procedures by using lgraph API. A simple C++ stored procedure example is as follows:

```c++
// peek_some_node_salt.cpp
#include <cstdlib>
#include "lgraph/lgraph.h"
#include "lgraph/lgraph_types.h"
#include "lgraph/lgraph_result.h"

#include "tools/json.hpp"

using json = nlohmann::json;
using namespace lgraph_api;

extern "C" LGAPI bool GetSignature(SigSpec &sig_spec) {
    sig_spec.input_list = {
        {.name = "limit", .index = 0, .type = LGraphType::INTEGER},
    };
    sig_spec.result_list = {
        {.name = "node", .index = 0, .type = LGraphType::NODE},
        {.name = "salt", .index = 1, .type = LGraphType::FLOAT}
    };
    return true;
}

extern "C" LGAPI bool ProcessInTxn(Transaction &txn,
                                   const std::string &request,
                                   std::string &response) {
    int64_t limit;
    try {
        json input = json::parse(request);
        limit = input["limit"].get<int64_t>();
    } catch (std::exception &e) {
        response = std::string("error parsing json: ") + e.what();
        return false;
    }

    Result result({{"node", LGraphType::NODE},
                   {"salt", LGraphType::FLOAT},
                   });
    for (size_t i = 0; i < limit; i++) {
        auto r = result.MutableRecord();
        auto vit = txn.GetVertexIterator(i);
        r->Insert("node", vit);
        r->Insert("salt", FieldData::Float(20.23*float(i)));
    }
    response = result.Dump();
    return true;
}
```

From the code we can see:
- The stored procedure defines a method `GetSignature` to get the signature. This method returns the signature of the stored procedure, which includes input parameter names and their types, and return parameters and their types. This enables the Cypher query statement to use the signature information to verify whether the input data and the returned data are reasonable when calling the stored procedure.
- The entry function is the `ProcessInTxn` function, which has three parameters, which are:

- `txn`: The transaction of the stored procedure, generally speaking, the transaction of the Cypher statement that calls the stored procedure.
- `request`: input data, its content is the string of the input parameter type defined in `GetSignature` and the value passed in the Cypher query statement after json serialization. e.g. `{num_iteration: 10}`
- `response`: output data, in order to ensure compatibility in the Cypher language, users can write the data processed by the stored procedure to `lgraph_api::Result`, and finally use `lgraph_api::Result::Dump` to serialize it into data in json format.

The return value of the `ProcessInTxn` function is a boolean value. When it returns `true`, it means that the request was successfully completed, otherwise it means that the stored procedure found an error during execution.

After the C++ stored procedure is written, it needs to be compiled into a dynamic link library. TuGraph provides `compile.sh` script to help users automatically compile stored procedures. The `compile.sh` script has only one parameter, which is the name of the stored procedure, which in the above example is `custom_pagerank`. Compile and call the command line as follows:

```bash
g++ -fno-gnu-unique -fPIC -g --std=c++14 -I/usr/local/include/lgraph -rdynamic -O3 -fopenmp -o custom_pagerank.so custom_pagerank.cpp /usr/local/lib64/liblgraph.so -shared
```

If the compilation goes well, custom_pagerank.so will be generated, which can then be loaded into the server by the user.

### 2.2.Load stored procedure

Users can load stored procedures through REST API and RPC. Taking the REST API as an example, the C++ code to load `custom_pagerank.so` is as follows:

```python
import requests
import json
import base64

data = {'name':'custom_pagerank'}
f = open('./custom_pagerank.so','rb')
content = f.read()
data['code_base64'] = base64.b64encode(content).decode()
data['description'] = 'Custom Page Rank Procedure'
data['read_only'] = true
data['code_type'] = 'so'
js = json.dumps(data)
r = requests.post(url='http://127.0.0.1:7071/db/school/cpp_plugin', data=js,
            headers={'Content-Type':'application/json'})
print(r.status_code)    ## 正常时返回200
```

It should be noted that `data['code']` at this time is a base64-processed string, and the binary code in `custom_pagerank.so` cannot be directly transmitted through JSON. In addition, the loading and deletion of stored procedures can only be operated by users with administrator privileges.

After the stored procedure is loaded, it will be saved in the database, and it will be automatically loaded after the server restarts. Also, if an update to the stored procedure is required, the same REST API is called. It is recommended that users update the corresponding descriptions when updating stored procedures, so as to distinguish stored procedures of different versions.

#### 2.2.1.List loaded stored procedures

During the running of the server, the user can obtain the list of stored procedures at any time. Its call is as follows:

```python
>>> r = requests.get('http://127.0.0.1:7071/db/school/cpp_plugin')
>>> r.status_code
200
>>> r.text
'{"plugins":[{"description":"Custom Page Rank Procedure", "name":"custom_pagerank", "read_only":true}]}'
```

#### 2.2.2.Get stored procedure details

While the server is running, users can obtain the details of a single stored procedure, including codes, at any time. Its call is as follows:

```python
>>> r = requests.get('http://127.0.0.1:7071/db/school/cpp_plugin/custom_pagerank')
>>> r.status_code
200
>>> r.text
'{"description":"Custom Page Rank Procedure", "name":"custom_pagerank", "read_only":true, "code_base64":<CODE>, "code_type":"so"}'
```

#### 2.2.3.Call stored procedure

An example code for calling a stored procedure is as follows:

```Cypher
CALL plugin.cpp.custom_pagerank(10)
YIELD node, pr WITH node, pr
MATCH(node)-[r]->(n) RETURN node, r, n, pr
```

#### 2.2.4.Delete stored procedure

Deleting a stored procedure requires only the following call:

```python
>>> r = requests.delete(url='http://127.0.0.1:7071/db/school/cpp_plugin/custom_pagerank')
>>> r.status_code
200
```

Similar to loading stored procedures, only admin users can delete stored procedures.

#### 2.2.5.Update stored procedure

Updating a stored procedure requires the following two steps:

1. Delete the existing stored procedure
2. Install the new stored procedure

TuGraph carefully manages the concurrency of stored procedure operations, and updating stored procedures will not affect the operation of existing stored procedures.

## 3.C++ OLAP interface

TuGraph's powerful online analytical processing (OLAP) capability is an important feature that distinguishes it from other graph databases.
With the help of C++ OLAP API (olap_on_db.h), users can quickly export a subgraph that requires complex analysis, and then run iterative graph calculation processes such as PageRank, connected components, community discovery, etc. on it, and finally make corresponding decisions based on the results decision making.
Both the export and calculation process can be accelerated through parallel processing, so as to achieve almost real-time analysis and processing, avoiding the lengthy traditional solutions that need to export, transform, and reimport (ETL) data to a dedicated analysis system for offline processing step.

TuGraph has a large number of commonly used graph analysis algorithms and rich auxiliary interfaces built in, so users hardly need to implement the specific graph calculation process by themselves, and only need to add the header file (.h file) of the corresponding algorithm library when implementing their own stored procedures. Include it in your own program, and link the corresponding dynamic library file (.so) when compiling.
Generally, what the user needs to implement by himself is the process of extracting the subgraphs to be analyzed.

### 3.1.Snapshot

The Snapshot template class in the C++ OLAP API is used to represent the extracted static subgraph, where EdgeData is used to represent the data type of the weight used by each edge on the subgraph (if the edge does not need weight, use Empty as EdgeData) ).

The extracted subgraph is described by the constructor of the Snapshot class:

```c
Snapshot::Snapshot(
    GraphDB & db,
    Transaction & txn,
    size_t flags = 0,
    std::function<bool(VertexIterator &)> vertex_filter = nullptr,
    std::function<bool(OutEdgeIterator &, EdgeData &)> out_edge_filter = nullptr
);
```

Among them, db is the database handle, txn is the transaction handle, flags is the option used when generating, and the optional values include the following combinations: SNAPSHOT_PARALLEL indicates that multiple threads are used for parallel export; SNAPSHOT_UNDIRECTED indicates that the exported graph needs to be undirected picture.
vertex_filter is a point-oriented user-defined filter function. If the return value is true, it means that the point needs to be included in the submap to be extracted, otherwise it means it needs to be excluded.
out_edge_filter is an edge-oriented user-defined filter function, and the return value is true, indicating that the edge needs to be included in the subgraph to be extracted, otherwise, it needs to be excluded.
When the filter function is the default value, it means that all vertices/edges need to be included.

For other methods provided by the Snapshot class, please refer to the detailed C++ API documentation (olap_on_db.h).

### 3.2.Traversal

A large class of analysis that is very common in graph databases is based on one or more points, expanding layer by layer and visiting neighbors.
Although this type of analysis can also be done using Cypher, its performance is limited by serial interpreted execution when accessing deep layers.
Although using the C++ Core API to write stored procedures avoids interpretation and execution, it is still limited by the processing power of a single thread.
In order to allow users to conveniently accelerate such application scenarios through parallel processing, we have encapsulated a Traversal framework based on the C++ OLAP API, and users can directly use the FrontierTraversal and PathTraversal classes to complete this layer-by-layer traversal analysis task. Please refer to the corresponding C++ API documentation (lgraph_traversal.h) for specific usage.

```c
ParallelVector<size_t> FindVertices(
    GraphDB & db,
    Transaction & txn,
    std::function<bool(VertexIterator &)> filter,
    bool parallel = false
);
```

This method can be used to find all points that satisfy the condition (filter returns true), and when parallel is true, the search process will be parallelized.

```c
template <typename VertexData>
ParallelVector<VertexData> ExtractVertexData(
    GraphDB & db,
    Transaction & txn,
    ParallelVector<size_t> & frontier,
    std::function<void(VertexIterator &, VertexData &)> extract,
    bool parallel = false
);
```

This method can be used to extract (via the extract method) attributes (of type VertexData) from the specified set of points (frontier), parallelizing the extraction process when parallel is true.

FrontierTraversal is suitable for situations where only the point set to which the traversal is extended is concerned; when the user needs to access information on the path (points/edges on the path) during the traversal process or results, PathTraversal is required.
The constructors of the two types of Traversal have three parameters, which are database handle db, transaction handle txn and option flags.
Optional values for the option include combinations of the following: TRVERSAL_PARALLEL means that multiple threads are used in parallel when traversing; TRVERSAL_ALLOW_REVISITS means that repeat visits are allowed when traversing (PathTraversal implies this option).

```c
void SetFrontier(size_t root_vid);
void SetFrontier(ParallelVector<size_t> & root_vids);
void SetFrontier(std::function<bool(VertexIterator &)> root_vertex_filter);
```

There are three ways to set the starting point/set of traversal for the two types of Traversal. The first two are directly specified by point ID, and the last way is similar to FindVertices.

The traversal of the two types of Traversal starts from the point set of the current layer, accesses each outgoing edge/incoming edge/outbound edge and incoming edge according to the extended function used, and determines whether the expansion is successful through the user-defined filter function. If successful, then Add the neighbor point/path with this edge added to the point/path collection of the next layer.

```c
void ExpandOutEdges(
    std::function<bool(OutEdgeIterator &)> out_edge_filter = nullptr,
    std::function<bool(VertexIterator &)> out_neighbour_filter = nullptr
);
void ExpandInEdges(
    std::function<bool(InEdgeIterator &)> in_edge_filter = nullptr,
    std::function<bool(VertexIterator &)> in_neighbour_filter = nullptr
);
void ExpandEdges(
    std::function<bool(OutEdgeIterator &)> out_edge_filter = nullptr,
    std::function<bool(InEdgeIterator &)> in_edge_filter = nullptr,
    std::function<bool(VertexIterator &)> out_neighbour_filter = nullptr,
    std::function<bool(VertexIterator &)> in_neighbour_filter = nullptr
);
```

The above are the three traversal methods of FrontierTraversal, that is, starting from the current point set, for each point in the set, visit each outgoing edge/incoming edge/outbound edge and incoming edge in turn, if the user-defined filter conditions are satisfied ( Among them, edge_filter is an edge-oriented filter function, and neighbour_filter is a neighbor-oriented filter function), and the neighbor points are added to the new point set.

```c
ParallelVector<size_t> & GetFrontier();
```

After the extension of the current point set ends, the new point set can be obtained through the above method.

```c
void ExpandOutEdges(
    std::function<bool(OutEdgeIterator &, Path &, IteratorHelper &)> out_edge_filter = nullptr,
    std::function<bool(VertexIterator &, Path &, IteratorHelper &)> out_neighbour_filter = nullptr
);
void ExpandInEdges(
    std::function<bool(InEdgeIterator &, Path &, IteratorHelper &)> in_edge_filter = nullptr,
    std::function<bool(VertexIterator &, Path &, IteratorHelper &)> in_neighbour_filter = nullptr
);
void ExpandEdges(
    std::function<bool(OutEdgeIterator &, Path &, IteratorHelper &)> out_edge_filter = nullptr,
    std::function<bool(InEdgeIterator &, Path &, IteratorHelper &)> in_edge_filter = nullptr,
    std::function<bool(VertexIterator &, Path &, IteratorHelper &)> out_neighbour_filter = nullptr,
    std::function<bool(VertexIterator &, Path &, IteratorHelper &)> in_neighbour_filter = nullptr
);
```

The three traversal methods of PathTraversal are similar to FrontierTraversal, except that two parameters are added to the user-defined filter function, among which: Path contains the path before the newly expanded edge, and IteratorHelper can be used to convert the points/edges in the path Convert to the corresponding iterator in the database. For related documents, please refer to the corresponding C++ API documents.

## 4.Procedure-api Documentation

TuGraph-Python-Procedure-API [[Document download]](https://tugraph-web-static.oss-cn-beijing.aliyuncs.com/%E6%96%87%E6%A1%A3/procedure-api/3.3.2/TuGraph-Python-Procedure-API.tar.gz)

TuGraph-CPP-Procedure-API [[Document download]](https://tugraph-web-static.oss-cn-beijing.aliyuncs.com/%E6%96%87%E6%A1%A3/procedure-api/3.3.2/TuGraph-CPP-Procedure-API.tar.gz)
