
# Legacy Procedure

This article introduces the implementation and use of stored procedures (Legacy Procedure) before version 3.5. Its management methods (including loading, querying, and deleting) are the same as [Standard Procedure], and the calling method is different from Standard Procedure. It does not support Cypher query statements Use, support for use in REST and RPC APIs.

[Standard Procedure]: ./1.procedure.md

## 1.Write stored procedures
### 1.1.Write C++ stored procedure

Users can write C stored procedures by using core API or Traversal API. An example of a simple C stored procedure is as follows:

```
#include <iostream>
#include "lgraph.h"
using namespace lgraph_api;

extern "C" LGAPI bool Process(GraphDB& db, const std::string& request, std::string& response) {
	auto txn = db.CreateReadTxn();
	size_t n = 0;
	for (auto vit = txn.GetVertexIterator(); vit.IsValid(); vit.Next()) {
        if (vit.GetLabel() == "student") {
            auto age = vit.GetField("age");
            if (!age.is_null() && age.integer() == 10) n++; ## Count all students whose age is 10
        }
	}
    output = std::to_string(n);
    return true;
}
```

From the code, we can see the entry of a TuGraph C++ stored procedure is the `Process` function, with three parameters:

- `db`: the TuGraph database instance
- `request`: the input data, which can be a binary byte array, or any other format such as JSON string.
- `response`: the output data, which can be a string or directly return binary data.

The return value of the `Process` function is a boolean value. When it returns `true`, it means that the request is successfully completed, otherwise it means that the stored procedure found an error during execution, and the user can return an error message through `response` to facilitate debugging.

After the C++ stored procedure is written, it needs to be compiled into a dynamic link library. TuGraph provides `compile.sh` script to help users automatically compile stored procedures. The `compile.sh` script has only one parameter, which is the name of the stored procedure, which is `age_10` in the above example. Compile and call the command line as follows:

```bash
g++ -fno-gnu-unique -fPIC -g --std=c++14 -I/usr/local/include/lgraph -rdynamic -O3 -fopenmp -o age_10.so age_10.cpp /usr/local/lib64/liblgraph.so -shared
```

If the compilation goes well, age_10.so will be generated, which can then be loaded into the server by the user.

### 1.2 Writing Python stored procedures

The following snippet does the same thing as the above C++ stored procedure, but via TuGraph Python API:

```python
def Process(db, input):
    txn = db.CreateReadTxn()
    it = txn.GetVertexIterator()
    n = 0
    while it.IsValid():
        if it.GetLabel() == 'student' and it['age'] and it['age'] == 10:
            n = n + 1
        it.Next()
    return (True, str(nv))
```

The Python stored procedure returns a tuple, the first element of which is a Boolean value indicating whether the stored procedure was successfully executed; the second element is a `str`, which contains the result to be returned.

Python stored procedures do not need to be compiled and can be loaded directly.

## 2.How to use stored procedures

### 2.1.Install Stored Procedures

Users can load stored procedures through REST API and RPC. Taking the REST API as an example, the C++ code to load `age_10.so` is as follows:

```python
import requests
import json
import base64

data = {'name':'age_10'}
f = open('./age_10.so','rb')
content = f.read()
data['code_base64'] = base64.b64encode(content).decode()
data['description'] = 'Custom Page Rank Procedure'
data['read_only'] = true
data['code_type'] = 'so'
js = json.dumps(data)
r = requests.post(url='http://127.0.0.1:7071/db/school/cpp_plugin', data=js,
                  headers={'Content-Type':'application/json'})
print(r.status_code)    ## 正常时返回200
```

It should be noted that `data['code']` at this time is a base64-processed string, and the binary code in `age_10.so` cannot be directly transmitted through JSON. In addition, the loading and deletion of stored procedures can only be operated by users with administrator privileges.

After the stored procedure is loaded, it will be saved in the database, and it will be automatically loaded after the server restarts. Also, if an update to the stored procedure is required, the same REST API is called. It is recommended that users update the corresponding descriptions when updating stored procedures, so as to distinguish stored procedures of different versions.

### 2.2.List Stored Procedures

During the running of the server, the user can obtain the list of stored procedures at any time. Its call is as follows:

```python
>>> r = requests.get('http://127.0.0.1:7071/db/school/cpp_plugin')
>>> r.status_code
200
>>> r.text
'{"plugins":[{"description":"Custom Page Rank Procedure", "name":"age_10", "read_only":true}]}'
```

### 2.3.Retrieve Stored Procedures Detail

While the server is running, users can obtain the details of a single stored procedure, including codes, at any time. Its call is as follows:

```python
>>> r = requests.get('http://127.0.0.1:7071/db/school/cpp_plugin/age_10')
>>> r.status_code
200
>>> r.text
'{"description":"Custom Page Rank Procedure", "name":"age_10", "read_only":true, "code_base64":<CODE>, "code_type":"so"}'
```

### 2.4.Call stored procedure

An example code for calling a stored procedure is as follows:

```
>>> r = requests.post(url='http://127.0.0.1:7071/db/school/cpp_plugin/age_10', data='',
                headers={'Content-Type':'application/json'})
>>> r.status_code
200
>>> r.text
9
```

### 2.5.Uninstall Stored Procedures

Deleting a stored procedure requires only the following call:

```python
>>> r = requests.delete(url='http://127.0.0.1:7071/db/school/cpp_plugin/age_10')
>>> r.status_code
200
```

Similar to loading stored procedures, only admin users can delete stored procedures.

### 2.6.Upgrade Stored Procedures

You can upgrade a stored procedure with the following two steps:

1. Uninstall the existing one.
2. Install the new on.

TuGraph carefully manages the concurrency of stored procedure operations. Upgrading stored procedures will not affect concurrent runs of existing ones.

## 3.Procedure-api Document

TuGraph-Python-Procedure-API [[document download]](https://tugraph-web-static.oss-cn-beijing.aliyuncs.com/%E6%96%87%E6%A1%A3/procedure-api/3.3.2/TuGraph-Python-Procedure-API.tar.gz)

TuGraph-CPP-Procedure-API [[document download]](https://tugraph-web-static.oss-cn-beijing.aliyuncs.com/%E6%96%87%E6%A1%A3/procedure-api/3.3.2/TuGraph-CPP-Procedure-API.tar.gz)
