# TuGraph schema  Instructions
## 1.The data model

### 1.1.Graph model
TuGraph is a strong schema, directed property graph database with multi-graph capability.

- Graph Project: Each database service can host multiple graph projects (multi-graphs), and each graph project can have its own access control configuration. The database administrator can create or delete specified graph projects.
- Vertex: Refers to entity, generally used to express real-world entities, such as a movie or an actor.
    - Primary Key: User-defined vertex data primary key, unique in the corresponding graph project and vertex type.
    - VID: Refers to the auto-generated unique ID of the vertex, which cannot be modified by the user.
    - Upper Limit: Each graph project can store up to 2^(40) vertex data.
- Edge: Used to express the relationship between vertexs, such as an actor appears in a movie.
    - Directed Edge: The edge is a directed edge. If you want to simulate an undirected edge, the user can create two edges with opposite directions.
    - Duplicate Edge: TuGraph currently supports duplicate edges. If you want to ensure the uniqueness of the edge, you need to implement it through business policies.
    - Upper Limit: Up to 2^(32) edge data can be stored between two vertex data.
- Property Graph: vertexs and edges can have properties associated with them, and each property can have a different type.
- Strong-typed: Each vertex and edge has only one label, and after creating a label, there is a cost to modify the number and type of attributes.
    - Specify the starting/ending vertex type of the edge: You can limit the starting and ending vertex types of the edge, and support different vertex types of the starting and ending vertexs of the same type of edge, such as individuals transferring money to companies, companies transferring money to companies. After specifying the starting/ending vertex type of the edge, you can add multiple sets of starting/ending vertex types, but you cannot delete the restricted starting/ending vertex types.
    - Unrestricted Mode: Supports creating edge data of this type between any two vertex types without specifying the starting and ending vertex types of the edge. Note: After specifying the starting/ending vertex type of the edge, the unrestricted mode cannot be used again.

### 1.2.The data type

TuGraph Supports a variety of data types that can be used as attributes, the specific supported data types are as follows:

<caption>Table 1. TuGraph supported data types</caption>

| **Type** | **Min**             | **Max**             | **Description**                                  |
|----------|---------------------|---------------------|--------------------------------------------------|
| BOOL     | false               | true                | Boolean                                          |
| INT8     | -128                | 127                 | 8-bit int                                        |
| INT16    | -32768              | 32767               | 16-bit int                                       |
| INT32    | - 2^31              | 2^31 - 1            | 32-bit int                                       |
| INT64    | - 2^63              | 2^63 - 1            | 64-bit int                                       |
| DATE     | 0000-00-00          | 9999-12-31          | "YYYY-MM-DD" Date of format                      |
| DATETIME | 0000-00-00 00:00:00.000000 | 9999-12-31 23:59:59.999999 | "YYYY-MM-DD hh:mm:ss[.ffffff]"Format of the date and time |
| FLOAT    |                     |                     | 32-bit float                                     |
| DOUBLE   |                     |                     | 64-bit float                                     |
| STRING   |                     |                     | A string of variable length                      |
| BLOB     |                     |                     | Binary data                                      |

_BLOB data is BASE64 encoded in input and output_

### 1.3.Index

TuGraph supports indexing vertex fields.

Indexes can be unique or non-unique. If a unique index is created for a vertex label, TuGraph will perform a data integrity check to ensure the uniqueness of the index before modifying the vertex of the label.

Each index built on a single field of a label, and multiple fields can be indexed using the same label.

BLOB fields cannot be indexed.

TuGraph supports creating indexes on properties of vertexs or edges to improve query efficiency.
- The index can be a unique or non-unique index.
- If a unique index is created for a vertex label, when modifying the vertex of the label, data integrity check will be performed first to ensure the uniqueness of the index.
- Each index is created based on a property of a vertex or edge, and indexes can be created on multiple properties of the same vertex or edge.
- An index cannot be created on a BLOB-type property.

## 2. Graph Project, Vertex, Edge, and Attribute Naming Conventions and suggestions

### 2.1 Naming Rules
Graph projects, vertices, edges, and attributes are identifiers. This section describes the allowed syntax for identifiers in TuGraph.
The table below describes the maximum length and allowed characters for each type of identifier.

|**Identifier** |**Length** |**Allowed Characters**|
|---------  |---------  |---------  |
|User, role, graph project	|1-64 characters	|Chinese, letters, numbers, underscore, and the first character cannot be a number|
|Vertex type, edge type, attribute	|1-256 characters		|Chinese, letters, numbers, underscore, and the first character cannot be a number|

### 2.2 Usage Restrictions

|**Description**|	**Maximum number**|
|-------- |--------- |
|Number of users, number of roles	|65536|
|Number of graphs	|4096|
|Number of vertex and edge types per graph	|4096|
|Number of attributes per type	|1024|

Note:
1.Special characters and keywords: When using special characters or keywords, they need to be enclosed in backquotes (``) for reference;

Example: ```match (`match`:match) return `match`.id limit 1```

2.Case sensitivity: TuGraph is case-sensitive;

3.Graph project, vertex/edge, and attribute names can be reused, but attribute names under the same vertex or edge cannot be duplicated;

4.Reserved keywords for attribute names: SRC_ID / DST_ID / SKIP.

### 2.3 Naming Suggestions
|**Identifier**|**Description**|**Suggestions**|
|-------|-------|--------|
|Graph project	|Start with a letter or Chinese character	|Examples: graph123, project123, etc.|
|Vertex/edge type	|Start with a letter or Chinese character and use underscores to separate words		|Examples: person, act_in, etc.|
|Attribute	|Letters or Chinese characters	|Examples: name, age, etc.|