# Installation

> This document describes three different TuGraph installation methods: Ubuntu system, CentOS system, docker image.

## Supported Platforms

TuGraph supports both X86_64 and ARM64 architectures in physical, virtual, and containerized environments.

## Hardware requirements

_You are advised to use NVMe SSDS with large memory configurations for optimal performance。_

| Hardware | Minimum Configuration | Recommended configuration |
| -------- | --------------------- | ------------------------- |
| CPU      | X86_64                | Xeon E5 2670 v4           |
| Memory   | 4GB                   | 256GB                     |
| Disk     | 100GB                 | 1TB NVMe SSD              |
| System   | Linux 2.6             | Ubuntu 18.04, CentOS 7.3  |

## Install through docker image

To use docker image for installation, users need to first ensure that docker has been installed in their server. The following command can determine whether docker has been installed:

```shell
$ sudo docker --version
```

    If the above command can print the docker version number successfully, it proves that the docker environment has been installed. Otherwise, docker needs to be installed first. For the process of installing docker, please refer to its official website:[https://docs.docker.com/install/](https://docs.docker.com/install/) 。
    Currently, TuGraph provides images based on Ubuntu 16.04 LTS and CentOS 7.3 systems. The image file is a compressed file named 'lgraph_x.y.z.ar', where 'x.y.z' is the version number of TuGraph.

The compressed package can be loaded into the docker image using the following command:

```shell
$ sudo docker load -i  ./tugraph_x.y.z.tar
```

If the loading is successful, you should have a docker image named tugraph_x.y.z on your computer. You can run the image using the following command:

```shell
# Run the image
$ sudo docker run -v {data_dir_on_host}:/data_dir_in_docker -it tugraph/tugraph-runtime-centos7:x.y.z /bin/bash
# Enter the docker container
$ docker exec -it {container_id} bash
```

- `-v` Directory mapping，
- `{host_data_dir}` is a directory where the user wants to store data, such as`/home/user1/workspace。`
- `-p` The feature of Docker is port mapping. In this example, Docker port 7090 is mapped to local port 7090.
- `{container_id}`is the id of container. It can be obtained by 'docker ps'

## Ubuntu

The.deb installation package for TuGraph installed on Ubuntu, which contains the TuGraph executable along with the header files and associated library files needed to write embedded programs and stored procedures.

To install the tugraph_x.y.z.deb 'installation package on the terminal, run the following command:

```shell
$ sudo dpkg -i tugraph-x.y.z.deb
```

This command installs TuGraph in the /usr/local directory by default. Users can also change the installation directory by specifying the `--instdir=<directory>` option.

## CentOS

rpm installation package for TuGraph installed on CentOS, which contains TuGraph executables as well as headers and associated libraries for writing embedded programs and stored procedures.

To install the tugraph_x.y.z.rpm package on the terminal, run the following command:

```shell
$ rpm -ivh tugraph-x.y.z.rpm
```

The user can also specify the installation directory by specifying the `--prefix` option.
